## Title

### The person
- Full name: Juan Sebastian Barbosa
- University: Universidad de los Andes, Colombia
- Email: juansebastian.coy@gmail.com
- GitHub: jsbarbosa

I am a last year physics and chemistry undergraduate student, with experience on C and Python, as open-source tools for the development of knowledge. Among my passions are: physical computing (code that physically interacts with surroundings e.g: microcontrollers, Raspberry), popular science in which I love to use computer simulations to show that there is plenty of phenomena that can be studied within a computer, software development to simplify everyday tasks and physics itself.

### The programmer

I have been programming for quite a while now. I first started with a Lego Mindstorm, then I moved to Microsoft Excel Macros (VB) at the end of my high school. Later, at college, I used Java during my first semester, and then I met Python throughout my second semester and it was love at first sight. At that very moment, I moved from Windows to Ubuntu and I have not stopped using it ever since; now it's been more than 4 years since then. Afterwards, during my 6th semester in college, I was introduced to C, and although it is not as easy to use or straight forward as Python, it's beauty is found in its power and speed. After that, I became Junior Teacher Assistant for the [Computational Methods class](https://github.com/ComputoCienciasUniandes/MetodosComputacionales) for two years. Computational Methods is a course where we study numerical methods to solve ODEs, PDEs, integrals, derivatives and how to find solutions to equation systems. Most (if not all) of my coding is freely available in [GitHub](http://www.github.com/jsbarbosa).

I think Python is the dream language, it is easy to use, and it is as readable as if it was pseudocode. Python is supported by a huge community -that I have found to be really friendly and ready to help-. Furthermore, it has literally hundred of thousands of modules and libraries that make it the perfect definition of a General Purpose Language. Python is as powerful for statistics as R, it only takes an `import pandas as pd`. With numerical calculations NumPy, and SciPy make it hard for MatLab to take any advantage. And off course symbolic calculations are not unique to Mathematica, thanks to the highly advanced SymPy module, from which many people around the world are thankful for. And best of all, Python does all of these for free, opening a universe of endless possibilities for which anyone, can code anywhere.

When it comes to scripting, my favorite IDE is Atom, as it is highly customizable, supports almost every programming language, and has a nice GUI (I have also used Spyder and Geany). However, for exploration and results presentation, Jupyter notebooks are the best.

I have used SymPy to find solution to equation systems, process mathematical expressions (e.g. integrate, gradients, simplify) and export results with `sympy.latex()`. SymPy has become one of my favorite tools, as it helped me on multiple classes, such as Solid State Physics, Quantum Mechanics and Classical Mechanics throughout my career. As a result of my Classical Mechanics and Computational Methods classes, I implemented a demonstration project, for which I used SymPy to obtain the equations of motion for a [double pendulum](https://github.com/ComputoCienciasUniandes/Demonstrations/tree/master/DoublePendulum) with Lagrangian formalism, which were then solved numerically and resulted in an animation of the position in time, which in turn was generated using the Matplotlibs animation module. Each step to obtain the equations of movement was detailed and explained in the code, but mathematical expressions were generated inline by SymPy. Also, analogous demonstrations were made for single springs pendulums, projectiles (with force drag) and a model of the solar system (ten bodies, with information from Horizons). Besides, a Nlog(N) algorithm (Barnes and Hut) for gravitational systems with its visualization module was written by me on 2017 by the name of [astrohut](https://jsbarbosa.github.io/astrohut/) in C, with Python binders for the heavy duty functions. Lastly, for PDEs, a module called [rippleTank](https://jsbarbosa.github.io/rippleTank/) was written in the same year in order to simplify the studies of wave interactions in ripple tanks.  

### You and your project
In physics the trajectories that a body follows are ruled by equations of motion. Depending on the system finding these equations can become very difficult. The Euler-Lagrange equation is useful to find the equation of motion associated to each of the system coordinates based on the potential and kinetic energy. Using energy has a great advantage over Newton's Second Law, as it requires scalars only. Even better is the Kane method, as it does not require to differentiate energy functions, which is handy (not to mention faster) for many body systems.

With this in mind, I wish to increase the speed at which the Kane's and Lagrange's methods generate equations of motion. To do so, . These would be very helpful as many problems, depending on the coordinates -even for few bodies-, have a really long set of equations that can take a while to generate. I would also like to develop a set of interesting examples that not only obtain the equations of motion for many body systems, but also evolve the system in time by numerically solving the differential equations. By doing this a cool set of demonstrations for the `mechanics` submodule, can be used to accompany the documentation, to increase the understanding of the code, and to motivate the study of computational tools to easily represent the physical world. The project might extend beyond the Google Summer of Code program, for which I have no problem to continue developing after this time e.g. to add new features. Right now, for the months spanning the GSoC, I have no other high priority duties, thus you can expect full time dedication to SymPy. 

As an undergraduate student in physics, I had two classical mechanics related classes, where I learned the Lagrangian method (including Lagrange multipliers for non conservative forces). I also took 3 computational courses all of which use Python. Finally, I am working in my [Thesis project](https://github.com/jsbarbosa/TesisFisica) were I simulate black hole's trajectories in non analytical galactic potentials.

As far as the motivation goes, off course, the possibility of contributing to SymPy, being part of the selected students that get accepted to the Google Summer of Code, brings a great deal of happiness to me. As a physicist, any contribution I give to my field of study is something I find highly rewarding. But thinking of the possibility that the lines of code I write will be useful for someone, even if is only one person, regardless of his level of scholarity, is what excites me the most. As I said, I love popular science.

#### Week 1 - 4

####
    Please provide a schedule of how this time will be spent on sub-tasks of the project over the period of the summer. While this is only preliminary, we will use it to help monitor your progress throughout the program. Also understand that during the project you will issue weekly progress reports against that plan on your blog.

    In planning your project, it is good to note where along the way you could formulate a pull request. These would be points where you can have a self contained and well documented and tested piece of functionality. Doing this at several points during the summer helps to keep branch merges reasonable and code reviews manageable. A big code dump at the end of the summer will likely be hard to review and merge before the project deadline.

### Patch requirement
I have uploaded a [pull request](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/16601) to fix a symbol related issue on the geometry submodule `Parabola` #14461.
